account & token registration, request & process deposits (#15)
gnosis/dex-research: dFusion/dFusionSpec.md

## Batch Auction Workflow

The trading workflow consists of the following sequential processes:

0. Account opening, deposits & withdrawals
1. On-Chain order collection

> 2. Transition function from sha to Pedersen hashes (zkSnark)

Reviewer: Can we use step 2..4 from the original?

Author: Yes, although I wasn't aware that I had changed this. Could it be that I was working with an older document?>

3. Finding the batch price: optimization of batch trading surplus (offchain)
4. Verifying batch price and trade execution (zkSnark)
5. Processing of pending exits and deposits (zkSnark)
6. Restart with step 0

### Account opening & token registration

#### Registering accounts
The contract specifies a constant number of accounts, `K`, that can be opened by anyone by providing an `accountIndex` such that `1 <= accountIndex <= K`. 
The account index is referred to, synonomously, as the account ID.

Upon opening an account, the contract verifies that
    - there is no account currently occupying the requested index and
    - the sender does not currently occupy an account slot.

On the level of contract storage, these contraints imply a bijective mapping {1, 2, ..., K} <-> addresses.

> Note that: Registering accounts by specified index (rather than incrementing) enables the possiblity for accounts to be closed and account slots to be made available.

Reviewer: Maybe add a `TODO` that holding an account will incur some kind of fee?

#### Registering tokens

Token registration is performed by token address.
Tokens are indexed incrementally (implying that they can never be removed) from 1 to `T` (the maximum number of allowed tokens).
Only the contract owner may register tokens by address.

**Note that** the contract does not verify the requested token address is actually that of an ERC20 token. This implies that security is enforced by permissions (i.e. only owner may register tokens).

> In the event that a *non-token* is registered as a token, the indexing slot would be permanently occupied, but no successful deposits could ever be made. However, if the registered token does implement a transferFrom successful deposits could occur

Reviewer: I'd leave this section out. I believe there is a lot that could happen if someone registered a non-token address and a full analysis of the impact may go beyond the scope of this spec. I think the note makes it clear that this is outside our threat model.

Author: So exclude just this paragraph or also the one before?

### Deposits & Withdrawals

#### Depositing token

Deposits are requested by token index and amount.
The contract verifies, that
        - the sender has registered an account,
        - the token index is that of a valid registered token and
        - the sender has sufficient balance

Token transfers (from sender to contract) are made during the deposit request phase, but the sender's balance is not represented in the `stateRoot` until these requests have been processed.

> Sender may not exit their balances untill the stateRoot has been updated with the appropriate deposit requests. However, deposit processing will be made publicially available. That is to say, any end user could potentially process their own deposits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sender may not exit their balances until the stateRoot has been updated with the appropriate deposit requests. However, any participant can process deposits. That is to say, an end user could potentially process their own deposits.
```

Upon successful transfer, the deposit is included in the appropriate depositRequest slot and the EVM emit's a "Deposit" event containing the following information
    - Account ID,
    - Token Index,
    - Amount Transferred,
    - Deposit Slot

> Where, deposit slot is deterministically governed the EVM's current block number as the integer division of block number by 20. This allows for asynchronicity so that one knows (after a certain block) that the deposit hash is no longer `active` (i.e. will not change). This is required for the asynchronous handling of in-flight transactions.

Reviewer: If it can be derived from the current block-number, maybe we don't have to provide the block in the event? This would save gas and remove duplicate data.

Author: yes interesting, along with the decoded_event data, my listener also gets block information.

Author: However, once we incorporate the max deposits per slot, we wont necessarily be able to use block number anymore.

#### Processing Deposits:

Deposits may be applied by specifying deposit slot and updated `stateRoot`. This new state root is computed by
- gathering all the deposit events for that slot,
- computing the updated balances for all cooresponding deposit transactions and

> - hashing this information together (as a Pedersen Hash)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- computing the pedersen hash of all account balances
```

For security reasons, the `applyDeposits` function must be called with the following parameters
- slot,
- currentStateHash,

> - currentDepositHash and

Reviewer: Can you explain why you need the depositHash and the slot? Wouldn't we be able to look up the depositHash from the slot? Given that we require slots to be frozen, I can't think of a race condition we would need to defend against.

Also, "current" is not really clear, since there might be a lot of depositHashes existing in parallel. What exactly do you mean by "current"? Is it mutated as a result of this function?

Author: This is only an additional security layer, to ensure that the sender knows which deposit hash they are intending to change. 

Yes, I can change current to simply depositHash

Reviewer: 👍 I think we don't need to send redundant information unless it can change in some form of race condition.

Author: So then, if I understand correctly, I will remove the depositHash verification from apply deposits and update this part of the spec to reflect it.

    - Account ID,
    - Token Index,
    - Amount Transferred,
    - Deposit Slot

Where, deposit slot is deterministically governed the EVM's current block number as the integer division of block number by 20. This allows for asynchronicity so that one knows (after a certain block) that the deposit hash is no longer `active` (i.e. will not change). This is required for the asynchronous handling of in-flight transactions.

#### Processing Deposits:

Deposits may be applied by specifying deposit slot and updated `stateRoot`. This new state root is computed by
- gathering all the deposit events for that slot,
- computing the updated balances for all cooresponding deposit transactions and
- computing the pedersen hash of all account balances

For security reasons, the `applyDeposits` function must be called with the following parameters
- slot,
- currentStateHash,
- newStateRoot

Although some aspects may not be entirely necessary, the contract verifies the following before updating the StateRoot;

- requested slot is strictly less than current deposit index. This ensures that deposit hash is no longer actively updated.
- requested deposits have not already been applied

> - deposit hash being applied agrees with the one stored in the contract.

Author: ```suggestion
```

## Batch Auction Workflow

The trading workflow consists of the following sequential processes:

0. Account opening, deposits & withdrawals
1. On-Chain order collection
2. Finding the batch price: optimization of batch trading surplus (off-chain)
3. Verifying batch price and trade execution (zkSnark)
4. Restart with step 1

### Account opening & token registration

#### Registering accounts
The contract specifies a constant number of accounts, `K`, that can be opened by anyone by providing an `accountIndex` such that `1 <= accountIndex <= K`. 

> The account index is referred to, synonomously, as the account ID.

Reviewer 2: synonymously? pseudonymously?

Author: At some point it will likely be only one. I prefer `accountId` because Indexes generally start at zero while IDs start at one (as in our situation).

Author: I will use interchangeably for now.

> The account index is referred to, synonomously, as the account ID.

Author: ```suggestion
The account index is referred to interchangeably as the account ID.
```

Upon opening an account, the contract verifies that
    - there is no account currently occupying the requested index and
    - the sender does not currently occupy an account slot.

On the level of contract storage, these contraints imply a bijective mapping {1, 2, ..., K} <-> addresses.

Note that: Registering accounts by specified index (rather than incrementing) enables the possiblity for accounts to be closed and account slots to be made available.

> TODO - holding an account will likely incur some kind of fee.

Reviewer 2: If this works for you: We should start with the assumption that account lease will be a fixed flat fee per batch in a single denominated currency, eg ETH, for which the account holder can place X orders in a batch. X = slots/accounts.

This isn't all that likely to work out, but its the simplest thing there is.

Author: Imagine the following scenario:

We do not charge rent for the accounts. Somebody creates `MAX_ACCOUNTS` different Ethereum address, fills all the account slots and  never participates in a single auction.

Reviewer 2: Right, that's why I would charge a lease for the accounts and allocate slots by account. Not at all efficient, but there are multiple ways to expand from there. The account/slot hogging scenario needs to be addressed, but right now for the BVP I would like to think through "what's the simplest fee structure to keep this running, assuming away all attacks". Not an easy thing after thinking about attack vectors for a few months. 

Defenses against the kinds of attacks we're envisioning can come later (in MarchVP). This is all a tradeoff between protection and usability.

Author: So is there a suggested change here or will this merged as is?

Upon successful transfer, the deposit is included in the appropriate depositRequest slot and the EVM emit's a "Deposit" event containing the following information
    - Account ID,
    - Token Index,
    - Amount Transferred,
    - Deposit Slot

Where, deposit slot is deterministically governed the EVM's current block number as the integer division of block number by 20. This allows for asynchronicity so that one knows (after a certain block) that the deposit hash is no longer `active` (i.e. will not change). This is required for the asynchronous handling of in-flight transactions.

#### Processing Deposits:

Deposits may be applied by specifying deposit slot and updated `stateRoot`. This new state root is computed by
- gathering all the deposit events for that slot,
- computing the updated balances for all cooresponding deposit transactions and
- computing the pedersen hash of all account balances

For security reasons, the `applyDeposits` function must be called with the following parameters
- slot,
- currentStateHash,

> - currentDepositHash and

Author: ```suggestion
```
